DOCSP-46321: CRUD operations (#144)
mongodb/docs-pymongo: source/interact-data/crud.txt

       awards = EmbeddedModelField(Award)
       genres = ArrayField(models.CharField(max_length=100), null=True, blank=True)

       class Meta:
           db_table = "movies"
           managed = False
      
       def __str__(self):
           return self.title

You can use the Python interactive shell to run the code examples.
To enter the shell, run the following command from your project's 
root directory:

.. code-block:: bash

   python manage.py shell

After entering the Python shell, ensure that you import the following models and
modules:

.. code-block:: python

   from <your application name>.models import Movie
   from django.utils import timezone
   from datetime import datetime

To learn how to create a Django application that uses the ``Movie``
model and the Python interactive shell to interact with MongoDB documents,
visit the :ref:`django-get-started` tutorial.

.. _django-crud-insert:

Insert Documents
----------------

To insert a document into a collection, call the ``create()`` method
on an instance of your model's ``Manager`` class. Pass the new document's
fields and values as arguments to the ``create()`` method.

> 

Reviewer: To insert a document into a collection, call the ``create()`` method on your model's ``Manager`` class. Pass the new document's field names and field values as arguments to the ``create()`` method.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following example calls the ``create()`` method to insert a document
into the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection. The new document has
a ``title`` value of ``"Poor Things"`` and a ``runtime`` value
of ``141``:

.. code-block:: python

   movie = Movie.objects.create(title="Poor Things", runtime=141)

.. note::

   The ``create()`` method allows you to create a new ``Movie`` object
   and save the object as a collection document in one method call.
   To view an example that creates an object then saves it to the
   database by calling ``save()``, see `create() <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/models/querysets/#create>`__

>    in the Django documentation.

Reviewer: I don't know if you want to mention this shortcut here, but I think you can also do this:

```
movie = Movie(title="Poor Things", runtime=141)
```

Presumably this works because instantiation of the class calls the manager's `create` method or something like that.

Author: Looks like you still need to call save() after to actually insert it into the database

.. _django-crud-read:

Read Documents
--------------

To retrieve documents from your collection, call the ``filter()`` method on an
instance of your model's ``Manager`` class. Pass a query filter, or criteria

> that specifies which documents to retrieve, as an argument to the ``filter()`` method.

Reviewer: To retrieve documents from your collection, call the ``filter()`` method on your model's ``Manager`` class.

.. _django-crud:

=======================
Perform CRUD Operations
=======================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: insert, modify, read, write, code example

Overview
---------

In this guide, you can learn how to use {+django-odm+} to run
create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) operations on your MongoDB
collection.

You can use methods provided by the Django ``QuerySet`` API to run
CRUD operations. To update documents in your collection, call the 
``QuerySet`` operation methods on your model objects that represent the collection.
Then, {+django-odm+} runs the operations on your collection documents.
This guide shows how to use the following ``QuerySet`` methods:

- :ref:`create() <django-crud-insert>`
- :ref:`filter() and get() <django-crud-read>`
- :ref:`update() <django-crud-modify>`
- :ref:`delete() <django-crud-delete>`

.. tip::

    To learn more about Django's ``QuerySet`` API, see

>     `QuerySet API reference <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/models/querysets/>`__

Reviewer 2: How about using intersphinx for linking to Django docs? The objects file: http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/_objects/ I think this would be especially helpful for making sure links stay updated when switching from one Django version to the next.

Reviewer: Looks like there is [some precedent for that](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Amongodb%2Fdocs%20intersphinx&type=code).

Author: Looking into this!

    in the Django documentation.

You can also use the Django admin site to edit your models
and their corresponding collections on a web interface. For
more information, see `The Django admin site <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/contrib/admin/>`__
in the Django documentation.

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``Movie`` model, which represents
the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`.
The ``Movie`` model class has the following definition:

.. code-block:: python

    from django.db import models
    from django_mongodb_backend.fields import EmbeddedModelField, ArrayField
    from django_mongodb_backend.managers import MongoManager

   class Movie(models.Model):
       title = models.CharField(max_length=200)
       plot = models.TextField(blank=True)
       runtime = models.IntegerField(default=0)
       released = models.DateTimeField("release date", null=True, blank=True)
       awards = EmbeddedModelField(Award)
       genres = ArrayField(models.CharField(max_length=100), null=True, blank=True)

>        objects = MongoManager()

Reviewer 2: no need for this

Author: I think MongoManager

>         class Meta:

Reviewer 2: Well, yes, there is a lot of feedback from #132 that's not yet incorporated here.

>         class Meta:

Author: Updated

           db_table = "movies"

>            managed = False

Author: Since I use this sample data on almost every page, what do you think of linking to the Models guide (which explains Meta and str()) instead of repeating the explanation every time?

>            managed = False

Reviewer 3: Sounds good to me

      
       def __str__(self):

>            return self.title

Author: same comment as above

>            return self.title

Reviewer 3: Yep. Works for me

You can use the Python interactive shell to run the code examples.
To enter the shell, run the following command from your project's 
root directory:

.. code-block:: bash

>    python3 manage.py shell

Author: `python` is fine, I updated the Getting Started guide as well

   python manage.py shell

To learn how to create a Django application that uses the ``Movie``
model and the Python interactive shell to interact with MongoDB documents,
visit the :ref:`django-get-started` tutorial.

.. _django-crud-insert:

Insert Documents
----------------

To insert a document into a collection, call the ``create()`` method on your
model objects that represent the collection. Pass the new document's fields
and values as arguments to the ``create()`` method.

Example
~~~~~~~

> The following example calls the ``create()`` method on your ``Movie`` objects

Reviewer 2: The phrasing "``create()`` method on your ``Movie`` objects" is used several times. This isn't precisely correct and could give the impression of something like "Movie.create(). "Movie.objects" is a manager and "create" is a queryset method. Rather than get into all of that, you might just say something like, "The following example uses the create() method to insert a document..."

model objects that represent the collection. Pass a query filter, or criteria
that specifies which documents to retrieve, as an argument to the ``filter()`` method.

Alternatively, you can call the ``get()`` method to retrieve a single document
that matches your query. 

Return Multiple Documents Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following example calls the ``filter()`` method on your ``Movie`` objects
to retrieve documents from the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection. The query
returns ``Movie`` objects that represent movies released on January 1, 2000:

.. io-code-block::
    :copyable: true

    .. input::
       :language: python

       from sample_mflix.models import Movie
       from django.utils import timezone
       from datetime import datetime

       Movie.objects.filter(released=timezone.make_aware(datetime(2000, 1, 1)))

    .. output::
       :language: none
       :visible: false

       <MongoQuerySet [<Movie: The Bumblebee Flies Anyway>, <Movie: Angels of the Universe>,
       <Movie: First Person Plural>, <Movie: Just, Melvin: Just Evil>, <Movie: Sound and Fury>,
       <Movie: Peppermint Candy>]>

> 

Reviewer: Here's our intersphinx config: https://github.com/mongodb-labs/django-mongodb-backend/blob/main/docs/source/conf.py#L39-L45

> 

Author: Do you mean add a link to the Django documentation for each method at the end of the sections? I can do that!

.. _django-crud:

=======================
Perform CRUD Operations
=======================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: insert, modify, read, write, code example

Overview
---------

> In this guide, you can learn how to use {+django-odm+} to run

Reviewer 4: Q: have you been using the convention to use "the" before the name of the backend?

Author: I've been leaving it out, based on the syntax in reference materials

create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) operations on your MongoDB
collection.

You can use methods provided by the Django ``QuerySet`` API to run

> CRUD operations. To run these operations, you can call ``QuerySet`` methods
> on your model's ``Manager``. The ``Manager`` class handles database

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
CRUD operations. To run these operations, call ``QuerySet`` methods
on your model's ``Manager`` instance? object?. The ``Manager`` class handles database
```

Reviewer: `Manager` is a class with `QuerySet` methods mixed in: https://github.com/django/django/blob/stable/5.1.x/django/db/models/manager.py#L176.

The default `Manager` is called `objects` … and it's an attribute of the model class… but yeah, looking at Django's documentation a manager typically referred to as just "manager". It may help to use "manager" instead of `Manager` since we're referring to the model's manager and not the `Manager` class e.g.: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/topics/db/queries/#retrieving-objects

Lastly, I find instance and object confusing for various reasons. I would say if you see Django using those terms go for it, else stick close to how Django describers managers as much as possible.

Reviewer: Correcting myself: this is how Django says it: 

"To retrieve objects from your database, construct a [QuerySet](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/models/querysets/#django.db.models.query.QuerySet) via a [Manager](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/topics/db/managers/#django.db.models.Manager) on your model class."

Author: Okay thank you! I will use "model's manager" as much as possible

operations and allows you to interact with your MongoDB data by referencing

> Django models. By default, Django adds a ``Manager`` named ``objects``

Reviewer 4: S: consider making just "Django" a source constant as its a word with a high possibility of typos, IMO

to every model class. 

This guide shows how to use the following ``QuerySet`` methods:

> - :ref:`create() <django-crud-insert>`
> - :ref:`filter() and get() <django-crud-read>`
> - :ref:`update() <django-crud-modify>`
> - :ref:`delete() <django-crud-delete>`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- :ref:`create() <django-crud-insert>`: Insert new data
- :ref:`filter() and get() <django-crud-read>`: Retrieve specific documents... etc
- :ref:`update() <django-crud-modify>`
- :ref:`delete() <django-crud-delete>`
```

.. tip::

>     To learn more about Django's ``QuerySet`` API, see

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    To learn more about Django's ``QuerySet`` API, see the
```

    `QuerySet API reference <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/models/querysets/>`__
    in the Django documentation.

You can also use the Django admin site to edit your models
and their corresponding collections on a web interface. For

> more information, see `The Django admin site <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/contrib/admin/>`__
> in the Django documentation.

Reviewer 4: S: to get around how weird the capitalization looks here
```suggestion
more information, see the `Django Admin Site <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/contrib/admin/>`__
entry in the Django documentation.
```

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``Movie`` model, which represents
the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`.
The ``Movie`` model class has the following definition:

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 4: Q: guessing that when these files are moved to the correct repo that you'll move these into files?

Author: yes!

    from django_mongodb_backend.fields import EmbeddedModelField, ArrayField

   class Movie(models.Model):
       title = models.CharField(max_length=200)
       plot = models.TextField(blank=True)
       runtime = models.IntegerField(default=0)
       released = models.DateTimeField("release date", null=True, blank=True)
       awards = EmbeddedModelField(Award)
       genres = ArrayField(models.CharField(max_length=100), null=True, blank=True)

       class Meta:
           db_table = "movies"
           managed = False
      
       def __str__(self):
           return self.title

You can use the Python interactive shell to run the code examples.
To enter the shell, run the following command from your project's 
root directory:

.. code-block:: bash

   python manage.py shell

After entering the Python shell, ensure that you import the following models and
modules:

.. code-block:: python

   from <your application name>.models import Movie
   from django.utils import timezone
   from datetime import datetime

To learn how to create a Django application that uses the ``Movie``
model and the Python interactive shell to interact with MongoDB documents,

> visit the :ref:`django-get-started` tutorial.

Author: Note: link broken until #132 is merged

.. _django-crud-insert:

Insert Documents
----------------

To insert a document into a collection, call the ``create()`` method on your
model's ``Manager`` class. Pass the new document's field names and field values
as arguments to the ``create()`` method.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following example calls the ``create()`` method to insert a document
into the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection. The new document has
a ``title`` value of ``"Poor Things"`` and a ``runtime`` value
of ``141``:

.. code-block:: python

   movie = Movie.objects.create(title="Poor Things", runtime=141)

.. note::

>    The ``create()`` method allows you to create a new ``Movie`` object
>    and save the object as a collection document in one method call.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   The ``create()`` method allows you to create a new ``Movie`` object
   and save the object to MongoDB in one method call.
```

   To view an example that creates an object then saves it to the
   database by calling ``save()``, see `create() <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/models/querysets/#create>`__

>    in the Django documentation.

Reviewer 4: Q: why not include this example here?

Author: Added

returns ``Movie`` objects that represent movies released on January 1, 2000:

.. io-code-block::
    :copyable: true

    .. input::
       :language: python

       Movie.objects.filter(released=timezone.make_aware(datetime(2000, 1, 1)))

    .. output::
       :language: none
       :visible: false

       <QuerySet [<Movie: The Bumblebee Flies Anyway>, <Movie: Angels of the Universe>,
       <Movie: First Person Plural>, <Movie: Just, Melvin: Just Evil>, <Movie: Sound and Fury>,
       <Movie: Peppermint Candy>]>

Return One Document Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To retrieve only one document that matches your query criteria, call the
``get()`` method and pass a query filter as an argument. The following example
retrieves a document in which the ``title`` value is ``"Boyhood"``:

.. io-code-block::
    :copyable: true

    .. input::
       :language: python

       Movie.objects.get(title="Boyhood")

    .. output::
       :language: none
       :visible: false

       <Movie: Boyhood>

.. important::

   If your query matches no documents or multiple documents, the ``get()``
   method generates an error. To retrieve one document from a query

>    that might match multiple, chain the ``first()`` method to ``filter()``.

Reviewer 4: S: you can still link to the specify a query guide in the TODO, but adding a one line example here of chaining first() wouldnt be a bad idea either!

.. TODO: To view an example that uses the ``first()`` method, see
   :ref:`` in the Specify a Query guide.

.. _django-crud-modify:

Modify Documents
----------------

To modify documents in a collection, call the ``filter()`` and ``update()``
methods on your model's ``Manager`` class. Pass a query filter,
or criteria that specifies which documents to update, as an argument to the
``filter()`` method. Then, pass the fields and values you want to update as
arguments to the ``update()`` method.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following example calls the ``update()`` method to modify
documents in the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection. The code matches
a document that has a ``title`` value of ``"High Fidelity"`` and adds a
``plot`` field:

.. io-code-block::
    :copyable: true

    .. input::
       :language: python

       Movie.objects.filter(title="High Fidelity").update(plot=

>        "Rob, a record store owner and compulsive list maker, recounts his top five breakups, including the one in progress.")

Reviewer 4: Q: fix indentation?

collection.

You can use methods provided by the Django ``QuerySet`` API to run

> CRUD operations. To run these operations, call ``QuerySet`` methods

Reviewer: operations, ^you can call

> your model's ``Manager``. The ``Manager`` class handles database

Reviewer: methods ^on your
